README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/CntoDev/cachspeak.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/CntoDev/cachspeak)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/8f07dc8081354271a1db941ac20a8570)](https://www.codacy.com/app/enricoghdn/cachspeak_2?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=CntoDev/cachspeak&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)

# CNTO Cachet to TeamSpeak notification script
This script is used to send a global message on a TeamSpeak server to notify a status change of one or more Cachet components.
Cachspeak shares the same structure of [triscord](https://github.com/CntoDev/triscord), as well as the `persistence` and `settings` modules.

Cachspeak is compatible with Cachet API v1 and TeamSpeak 3.

## Requirements
 - Python 3.5
 
## Installation
`pip install .`

## Usage
Help message is available using `cachspeak -h` or `cachspeak --help`
```
usage: cachspeak [-h] [--debug] --config-path CONFIG_PATH --persist-path
                 PERSIST_PATH

Send Cachet updates to TeamSpeak

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --debug               enable logging
  --config-path CONFIG_PATH
                        path of the configuration file
  --persist-path PERSIST_PATH
                        path of the persistence file
```

## Configuration
A configuration file following a ini-like syntax is required for connecting to Cachet and TeamSpeak services, an example is provided with the `cachspeak.ini.dist`file.

The message sent to TeamSpeak can be customized with syntax highlighting (refer to TeamSpeak messaging documentation) and it is possible to show more information about every updated component: several placeholders are available, each one will be replaced with the actual component data. A placeholder must be enclosed by brackets in order to be used.
The available placeholders are: `id`, `name`, `status`, `status_name`, `created_at`, `updated_at`, `deleted_at`.

**Note**: it is *highly* recommended that the machine running *cachspeak* is whitelisted on TeamSpeak server, otherwise a flood-ban is very likely to happen. Refer to ServerQuery documentation to add an address to the whitelist.

Commit message:

Update notification system
  - Connection with TeamSpeak has been improved and it is now possible to customize the recipient of the message sent to TeamSpeak as well as change the displayed name of the bot. Documentation, tests and configuration file structure have been changed accordingly.
  - The setting `api_endpoint`has been changed to `api_url` for better understanding.
  - Introduced bash file to run tests. Travis CI configuration edited to use it.
  - Codacy coverage badge added.

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/CntoDev/cachspeak.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/CntoDev/cachspeak)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/8f07dc8081354271a1db941ac20a8570)](https://www.codacy.com/app/enricoghdn/cachspeak_2?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=CntoDev/cachspeak&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Coverage/8f07dc8081354271a1db941ac20a8570)](https://www.codacy.com/app/enricoghdn/cachspeak?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=CntoDev/cachspeak&utm_campaign=Badge_Coverage)

# CNTO Cachet to TeamSpeak notification script
This script is used to send a global message on a TeamSpeak server to notify a status change of one or more Cachet components.
Cachspeak shares the same structure of [triscord](https://github.com/CntoDev/triscord), as well as the `persistence` and `settings` modules.

Cachspeak is compatible with Cachet API v1 and TeamSpeak 3.

## Requirements
 - Python 3.5
 
## Installation
`pip install .`

## Usage
Help message is available using `cachspeak -h` or `cachspeak --help`
```
usage: cachspeak [-h] [--debug] --config-path CONFIG_PATH --persist-path
                 PERSIST_PATH

Send Cachet updates to TeamSpeak

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --debug               enable logging
  --config-path CONFIG_PATH
                        path of the configuration file
  --persist-path PERSIST_PATH
                        path of the persistence file
```

## Configuration
A configuration file following a ini-like syntax is required for connecting to Cachet and TeamSpeak services, an example is provided with the `cachspeak.ini.dist` file.

**Note**: it is *highly* recommended that the machine running *cachspeak* is whitelisted on TeamSpeak server, otherwise a flood-ban is very likely to happen. Refer to ServerQuery documentation to add an address to the whitelist.

### TeamSpeak notifications configuration
 - The message sent to TeamSpeak can be customized with syntax highlighting (refer to TeamSpeak messaging documentation) and it is possible to show more information about every updated component: several placeholders are available, each one will be replaced with the actual component data. A placeholder must be enclosed by brackets in order to be used.The available placeholders are: `id`, `name`, `status`, `status_name`, `created_at`, `updated_at`, `deleted_at`.
 - It is possible to specify the messages recipient (i.e. a single client, a whole channel, etc) by adjusting the `targetmode` and `target` options in the configuration file. Refer to ServerQuery documentation for details about values.
 - The bot name (shown in blue at the beginning of each global message) can be customized by adjusting the value of `bot_nickname` in the configuration file.
